New "Getting Started (#1062)
lukso-network/docs: docs/learn/getting-started.md

---
sidebar_label: '👉 Getting Started'
description: Introduction to the LUKSO Ecosystem - why choose LUKSO? Who is LUKSO intended for?
---

import CallToActionButton from '@site/src/components/CallToActionButton';

# Welcome to LUKSO

The purpose of this section is to teach you the bare minimum, so that you can start coding as soon as possible to try out everything LUKSO has to offer.

For more detailed information on any topic please use search or check out our [LEARN section](../learn/introduction.md).

## What is LUKSO?

> LUKSO is layer 1, Ethereum twin blockchain. It uses a proof-of-stake consensus algorithm, making it fundamentally the same as Ethereum at a network level but with some innovative differences, particularly in how developers build applications on the network and the building blocks you use.

Reviewer: Suggest removing this sentence, as it adds unecessary information (developers building on EVM chains know that Ethereum is PoS)

```suggestion
LUKSO is a Layer 1 EVM chain, Ethereum twin blockchain. It is fundamentally the same as Ethereum at a network level but with some innovative differences, particularly in how developers build applications on the network and the building blocks you use.
```

Here are the top 3 reasons why LUKSO is different to any other blockchain:

> <table><thead>

Author: I'm using HTML because I can do bullet points, it didn't work with markdown.

        <li>Updatable</li>
        <li>Better IDs</li>
        <li>Iteratable</li>
        <li>Batch Transfers</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
    <td>
      <ul>
        <li>Safer</li>
        <li>Token Icons</li>
        <li>Updatable</li>
        <li>Batch Transfers</li>
        <li>Extensible</li>
        <li>Notifying</li>
        <li>Unified</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Learn more about the unique LUKSO Standard Proposals (LSPs) in the [LUKSO STANDARDS section](../standards/introduction.md).

## Where should I start?

Download the 🆙 browser extension using the link below:

<CallToActionButton
    color="white"
    target="_blank"
    link="https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/universal-profiles/abpickdkkbnbcoepogfhkhennhfhehfn"
    text="Install the Universal Profile Browser Extension 🧩"
  />

Then create your first Universal Profile below:

<CallToActionButton
color="white"
target="blank"
link="https://my.universalprofile.cloud"
text="Create your Universal Profile 🆙"
/>

With these two elements in place, you are ready to explore the [LUKSO ecosystem](https://www.lukso.network/ecosystem).

## Ready to build?

Choose your path below:

> <table><thead>

Author: I could have here, but my plan was to style the tables later and I think that's still possible with markdown, I wouldn't be able to style the other table the same way with classes. Because the other table did need html.

> <table><thead>

Reviewer: Ok then maybe we can try to Markdown links for catching broken links, but use HTML table

  <tr>
    <th>**dApp Developers**</th>
    <th>**Smart Contract Developers**</th>
    <th>**Validators**</th>
  </tr></thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Check out our <a href="https://github.com/lukso-network/tools-dapp-boilerplate" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">BOILERPLATE</a> - clone this repo to have a fully functioning dApp in minutes.</td>
    <td>Explore our <a href="https://github.com/lukso-network/lukso-playground" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">PLAYGROUND repo</a> - it allows you to see how to fetch profile and asset information, encode data, change permissions etc.</td>
    <td>Learn more about how to run a <a href="https://docs.lukso.tech/networks/testnet/running-a-node" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">node</a> or become a <a href="https://docs.lukso.tech/networks/testnet/become-a-validator" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">validator</a> on our testnet. <br></br></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>Create an NFT using our LSP7 by <a href="https://docs.lukso.tech/learn/digital-assets/smart-contract-developers/create-lsp7-token/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">following this guide.</a></td>

Author: <img width="1015" alt="Screenshot 2024-06-28 at 16 23 07" src="https://github.com/lukso-network/docs/assets/57187565/32b706b8-cb78-4895-aa30-b8b929f022a8">
 Are there more links we could put in the SC dev and validator columns do you think?

>     <td>Create an NFT using our LSP7 by <a href="https://docs.lukso.tech/learn/digital-assets/smart-contract-developers/create-lsp7-token/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">following this guide.</a></td>

Reviewer: For smart contract developer, the guide to create a Token
